---
layout: post
title: Scratch Pad
published: true
---

Random notes and scraps to include in the book.

- Define clearly? What is a magician? What is an Adept? Somebody who reflects and turns the wheel of the age, who changes the deep psyche of humanity, the collective unconcious, in a way no artist can.

- Will Self's comments on unhealthy obsession with Revelation in his introduction to the pocket edition

- Tying Crowley's use of Enochian to view the dawning of the New Aeon with material in the Spirit Diaries. L (the original technical designation of the Book of the Law, "Liber L vel Legis," before Achad found the 31 key and it was retitled "Liber Al") is the central character on the Holy Table of Practice. Kelley's later transmission from "lying spirits" who tell him that Jesus is not God and transmit a kind of modern New Age/New Aeon doctrine that sounds like Thelema. Crowley's claim to be reincarnation of Kelley.  

Crowley's review of Charlotte Fell-Smith's bio of Dee, from *The Equinox, Vol. 1, No. 3*:

JOHN DEE.  BY CHARLOTTE FELL SMITH.  Constable and Co. 10"s." 6"d." net.
   It is only gracious to admit that this book is as good as could possibly
have been produced on the subject ___ the publishes are cordially invited
to quote the last fourteen words, and now I can finish my sentence ___ by a
person totally ignorant of the essence thereof.
   Dee was an avowed magician; Miss Smith is an avowed intellectual prig.
So she can find nothing better to do than to beg the whole question of the
        9  To "take Pansil" is to vow obedience to these Precepts.
        10 I do not propose to dilate on the moral truth which Ibsen has so
          long laboured to make clear: that no hard and fast rule of life
          can be universally applicable.  Also, as in the famous case of
          the lady who saved (successively) the lives of her husband, her
          father, and her brother, the precepts clash.  To allow to die is
          to kill --- all this is obvious to the most ordinary thinkers.
          These precepts are of course excellent general guides for the
          vulgar and ignorant, but you and I, dear reader, are wise and
          clever, and know better.
validity of Dee's "actions," and that although she admits that the Book of
Enoch is unintelligible to her.  Worse, she retails the wretched slanders
about me current among those who envied me.  I was certainly "wanted" for
coining.  I happened to have found the trick of making gold at a very early
age, but had not the sense to exploit it properly; and when I got any sense
I got more sense than to waste time in such follies.  The slander that I
deluded Dee is as baseless.  Again and again I tried to break with him, to
show him how utterly unreliable it all was.  Only his more than paternal
{310} kindness for me kept me with him.  God rest him; I hear he has been
reincarnated as W. T. Stead.
   For one thing I do most seriously take blame, that my training was too
strong for my power to receive spiritual truth.  For when the Holy Angels
came to instruct me in the great truths, that there is no sin, that the
soul passes from house to house, that Jesus was but man, that the Holy
Ghost was not a person, I rejected them as false.  Ah! have I not paid
bitterly for the error?  Still, the incarnation was not all loss; not only
did I attain the Grade of Major Adept, but left enough secret knowledge (in
an available form) to carry me on for a long while.  I am getting it back
now; with luck I'll be a Magister Templi soon, if I can only get rid of my
giant personality.  You may say, by the way, that this is hardly a review
of a book on my old master, silly old josser!  Exactly; I never cared a
dump for him.  He was just a text for my sermon then; and so he is now.
                                            EDWARD KELLEY.
                                            

...
