---
layout: post
title: Working Methods
published: true
---

The following assembles methods of working with the Enochian material utilized by Dee/Kelly; Crowley/Neuberg; and proscribed by the Angels themselves.

##Dee/Kelly

##Crowley/Neuberg

- Summary of methods used during the reception of *The Vision and the Voice*:

[These methods pertains to working the 30 Aethyrs in Yetzirah—i.e., scrying them as astral visions, rather than entering into them fully. The latter method is given in Aethyr 18.]

1. Sensory deprivation and social isolation by remaining in uninhabited desert conditions.
2. Physical exhaustion from crossing desert while making 1,001 prostrations per day.
3. Mental focus and emptiness by making 1,001 recitations of Surah 112 per day.
4. The recitation of the 19th Call, modified for each Aethyr.
5. Physically scrying into a golden topaz, while overshadowed by the Aethyr.
+. Taboo-breaking by homosexual sex magick (passive sodomy).
+. Göetic-style evocation AND invocation with aid of animal sacrifice for material basis.

- Liber Chanokh (assembled later with/for A.'.A.'. students. Contains material relating to the Holy Table and the Sigillum Dei Aemeth, which appear in *V&V*)

##From Angels themselves

####From the 18th Aethyr [This method pertains to working the 30 Aethyrs in Briah. And Atziluth?]

0. Do the preparatory methods listed in *Liber Cadaveris*, and then:
1. Feast
2. Banish all elements/planets/signs/sephiroth [Liber YOD]
3. Take Holy Table for altar
4. Call of Aethyr written in Enochian or Alphabet of Daggers on virgin vellum
5. Conjure Aethyr
6. Burn text in lamp.
7. Kneel before Holy Table (i.e., in Dragon Asana) and you will get the vision. 

####From the 9th Aethyr [This method likely pertains to working the 30 Aethyrs in Atziluth, or overall.]

0. Invoke the highest (IAIDA) before approaching shrine.
1. Affirm the unity (in Enochian or Arabic?) 1,001 times, and bow 1,001 times. [This Crowley divided into 13 sections {AChD} - 77 each.]
2. Recite Call of Aethyr x3 (1+2 for Chokmah)
3. Think and desire only Adonai.
4. Be chaste, or at least subtle and delicate.
5. All day and all night, awake or asleep, shall thy heart be turned as a lotus-flower unto the light. [Open Anahata].
6. And thy body shall be the temple of the Rosy Cross. 
7. Thus shall thy mind be open to the higher, and then shalt thou be able to conquer the exhaustion, and it may be find the words-for who shall look upon his face and live?
8. Note language: Tremblest from within, holy spirit descended into heart, shaketh thee as an aspen. [Pranayama/kundalini phenomena.] [Aspen = Aleph, air. Pranayama.]
